(58) The notification and disclosure requirements and the specific safeguards against asset stripping in the case of control over a non-listed company or an issuer should be subject to a general exception for control over small and medium-sized enterprises and special purpose vehicles with the purpose of purchasing, holding or administrating real estate. Further, those requirements do not aim at making public proprietary information which would put the AIFM at a disadvantage vis-à-vis potential competitors such as sovereign wealth funds or competitors that may want to put the target company out of business by using the information to their advantage. The obligations to notify and disclose information should therefore apply subject to the conditions and restrictions relating to confidential information set out in Directive 2002/14/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2002 establishing a general framework for informing and consulting employees in the European Community (16) and without prejudice to Directives 2004/25/EC and 2004/109/EC. This means that Member States should provide that within the limits and conditions laid down by national law the employees’ representatives, and anyone assisting them, are not authorised to reveal to employees and to third parties any information affecting the legitimate interests of the company that has expressly been provided to them in confidence. Member States should, however, be able to authorise the employees’ representatives and anyone assisting them to pass on confidential information to employees and to third parties bound by an obligation of confidentiality. Member States should provide that the relevant AIFMs do not request the communication of information by the board of directors to the employees’ representatives or, where there are none, the employees themselves, when the nature of that information is such that, according to objective criteria, it would seriously harm the functioning of the company concerned or would be prejudicial to it. The notification and disclosure requirements and the specific safeguards against asset stripping should also apply without prejudice to any stricter rules adopted by Member States.

%%% (16)  OJ L 80, 23.3.2002, p. 29.