(8) Market integrity requires the adequate public disclosure of stabilisation measures. Reporting of the stabilisation transactions is also necessary to allow competent authorities to supervise stabilisation measures. In order to ensure investor protection, preserve the integrity of markets and deter market abuse, it is also important that competent authorities in the performance of their supervisory activities become aware of all stabilisation transactions, irrespective of whether they take place in or outside a trading venue. Furthermore, it is appropriate to clarify in advance the division of responsibilities between the issuers, the offerors or the entities undertaking the stabilisation as regards fulfilment of applicable reporting and transparency requirements. Such division of responsibilities should take into account who is in possession of the relevant information. The appointed entity should be also responsible to respond to any request from the competent authority in each Member State concerned. To ensure easy access for any investor or market participant, the information to be disclosed prior to the start of the initial or secondary offer of the securities to be stabilised under Commission Regulation (EC) No 809/2004 (2), is without prejudice to disclosure requirements under Article 6 of this Regulation.

%%% (2)  Commission Regulation (EC) No 809/2004 of 29 April 2004 implementing Directive 2003/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards information contained in prospectuses as well as the format, incorporation by reference and publication of such prospectuses and dissemination of advertisements (OJ L 149, 30.4.2004, p. 1).