(57) Commission Directive 2006/73/EC (25) allows Member States to require, in the context of organisational requirements for investment firms, the recording of telephone conversations or electronic communications involving client orders. Recording of telephone conversations or electronic communications involving client orders is compatible with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (the Charter) and is justified in order to strengthen investor protection, to improve market surveillance and increase legal certainty in the interest of investment firms and their clients. The importance of such records is also referred to in the technical advice to the Commission, released by the Committee of European Securities Regulators on 29 July 2010. Such records should ensure that there is evidence to prove the terms of any orders given by clients and its correspondence with transactions executed by the investment firms, as well as to detect any behaviour that may have relevance in terms of market abuse, including when firms deal on own account. To that end records are needed for all conversations involving a firm’s representatives when dealing, or intending to deal, on own account. Where orders are communicated by clients through other channels than by telephone, such communications should be made in a durable medium such as mails, faxes, emails, documentation of client orders made at meetings. For example, the content of relevant face-to-face conversations with a client could be recorded by using written minutes or notes. Such orders should be considered to be equivalent to orders received by telephone. Where minutes are taken of face-to-face conversations with clients, Member States should ensure that appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure that the client does not lose out as a result of the minutes inaccurately recording the communication between the parties. Such safeguards should not imply any assumption of liability by the client. In order to provide legal certainty regarding the scope of the obligation, it is appropriate to apply it to all equipment provided by the firm or permitted to be used by the investment firm and to require the investment firms to take reasonable steps to ensure that no privately owned equipment is used in relation to transactions. Those records should be available to competent authorities in the fulfilment of their supervisory tasks and in the performance of enforcement actions under this Directive and under Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 and Directive 2014/57/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (26) in order to help competent authorities identify behaviours which are not compliant with the legal framework regulating the activity of investment firms. Those records should also be available to investment firms and to clients to demonstrate the development of their relationship with regard to orders transmitted by clients and transaction carried out by firms. For those reasons, it is appropriate to provide in this Directive for the principles of a general regime concerning the recording of telephone conversations or electronic communications involving client orders.

%%% (25)  Commission Directive 2006/73/EC of 10 August 2006 implementing Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards organisational requirements and operating conditions for investment firms and defined terms for the purposes of that Directive (OJ L 241, 2.9.2006, p. 26).

%%% (26)  Directive 2014/57/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on criminal sanctions for market abuse (market abuse Directive) (see page 179 of this Official Journal).